Add ldap server example (#105)
Mirantis/mke-docs: content/docs/tutorials/authentication-provider-setup/ldap-provider-setup.md

---
title: LDAP provider setup
weight: 1
---

> This example shows how to create an LDAP server for testing LDAP authentication with MKE 4. For the full list of LDAP configurations, see the [LDAP](../../../../docs/operations/authentication/ldap) documentation.

Author: ```suggestion
To create a local LDAP server to test [LDAP authentication](../../../../docs/operations/authentication/ldap) with MKE4
```

> This example shows how to create an LDAP server for testing LDAP authentication with MKE 4. For the full list of LDAP configurations, see the [LDAP](../../../../docs/operations/authentication/ldap) documentation.

Reviewer: Can I have my colon back? :-)

## Running an LDAP Server for testing

> 

Author: I could see procedures being done under these headers but I think removing them will make for a very long run-on checklist that doesn't break apart the different actions that are being done. These headers also create sublinks that are extremely useful when referring to docs.

We can do it if you want but from a readers perspective they help to break the steps apart in to larger sections and users will be able to tell what part they need to replace for the setup they want to use. i.e. if I was setting up a production LDAP server, I would replace this **Running and LDAP server for testing ** section and the rest of this would be the same process.

> **Note** Running the development server requires [Docker and docker compose](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) to be installed on your machine. Docker compose is now part of docker

### Create the initial config file

Create a file called `config-ldap.ldif` with the following content:

```ldif
# dn: dc=example,dc=org
# objectClass: dcObject
# objectClass: organization
# o: Example Company
# dc: example

dn: ou=People,dc=example,dc=org
objectClass: organizationalUnit
ou: People

dn: cn=jane,ou=People,dc=example,dc=org
objectClass: person
objectClass: inetOrgPerson
sn: doe
cn: jane
mail: janedoe@example.com
userpassword: foo

dn: cn=john,ou=People,dc=example,dc=org
objectClass: person
objectClass: inetOrgPerson
sn: doe
cn: john
mail: johndoe@example.com
userpassword: bar

# Group definitions.

dn: ou=Groups,dc=example,dc=org
objectClass: organizationalUnit
ou: Groups

dn: cn=admins,ou=Groups,dc=example,dc=org
objectClass: groupOfNames
cn: admins
member: cn=john,ou=People,dc=example,dc=org
member: cn=jane,ou=People,dc=example,dc=org

dn: cn=developers,ou=Groups,dc=example,dc=org
objectClass: groupOfNames
cn: developers
member: cn=jane,ou=People,dc=example,dc=org

> ```

Author: My linter keeps moving the code back which tells me this is a standard me nono. I can put it in but if anyone edits it then their linter might try to move it.
